https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69002991 Richard Hanbury-Tenison Sir Richard Hanbury-Tenison, KCVO (3 January 1925 - 12 August 2017) was a Welsh-Irish diplomat, soldier and royal representative. Born on 3 January 1925, he was the son of Major G. E. F. Tenison and Ruth, "nee" Hanbury. His father was from Ireland, but his mother's family had made their wealth out of mining iron ore and processing it in Pontypool in Wales over two centuries earlier. Hanbury-Tenison attended Eton and then served as an officer in the Irish Guards from 1943, firstly in Belgium and the Netherlands in late 1944 and then in Germany in 1945, where he was wounded. After studying at Magdalen College, Oxford, he entered HM Diplomatic Service in 1949. He was in Austria from 1956, dealing with the arrival of refugees from Hungary. He subsequently served in Romania and as political counsellor in Germany and Belgium. He left the service in 1975 and settled in the Welsh county of Gwent. There, he was closely involved with various public bodies. Having served as High Sheriff of the county in 1977, he was the Lord Lieutenant of Gwent from 1979 to 2000 and was appointed a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order in the 1995 Birthday Honours. He died on 14 August 2017. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69002996 The Bachelor (American season 26) The twenty-sixth season of "The Bachelor" premiered on January 3, 2022. This season features 28-year-old Clayton Echard, a medical sales representative from Eureka, Missouri. Echard finished in eighth place on the eighteenth season of "The Bachelorette" featuring Michelle Young. Production. Casting and contestants. In August 2021, it was reported that season 15 runner-up Tyler Cameron, and season 17's Greg Grippo, Andrew Spencer and Michael Allio, were in consideration for the lead role. On September 15, 2021, media outlets reported that Echard was selected as the Bachelor. The next day, the production crew was also reported in Echard's hometown of Eureka, Missouri to film footage for his upcoming season. Host Jesse Palmer further confirmed the news on Instagram in October 2021. Echard was formally announced as The Bachelor on November 30, 2021. Notable contestants include Hurricane Sandy survivor Daria Rose; Denver Broncos cheerleader Gabby Windey, who is the ex-girlfriend of "The Bachelorette" and "Bachelor in Paradise" contestant Dean Unglert; Olympic sprinter Marlena Wesh, who represented Haiti at the 2012 Summer Olympics; Miss Virginia USA 2020 and Miss USA 2020 competitor Susie Evans; Miss South Carolina Teen 2015 and top 10 finalist at Miss America's Outstanding Teen 2016 Sarah Hamrick; Miss Teen America 2013 Lindsay Dobbs; and Oppenheim Group realtor Kate Gallivan, who appeared in the series "Selling Sunset". Filming and development. On September 28, 2021, it was announced that former "Bachelor" Jesse Palmer would host the season, replacing former host Chris Harrison. Harrison departed the franchise in June 2021 following backlash after his support for Rachael Kirkconnell, the winner of the previous season, whose photos resurfaced of her attending an Antebellum South-themed party. The season reverted to its standard production format and initial filming location in Agoura Hills, California. This will be the first season they have filmed at the Villa de la Vina mansion (known as The Bachelor Mansion) since season 24, after the previous four seasons of "The Bachelor" and "The Bachelorette" were filmed in a bio-secure bubble zone due to the COVID-19 pandemic. All contestants and crew members are required to present proof of vaccination for COVID-19 to participate. Filming began on September 29, 2021, and interstate and international travel returned this season. Filming was reported in Houston, Texas at NRG Stadium in October 2021, and in Iceland in November 2021 at Harpa Concert Hall in Reykjavik and Ingolfsskali Viking Restaurant in Olfus. Additionally, the season includes visits to the Canadian province of Ontario, Croatia and Austria. Contestants. 33 potential contestants were revealed on September 25, 2021. The final cast of 31 women was announced on December 15, 2021. However, one of the contestants, Salley Carson, a 26-year-old spine surgery robot operator from Greenville, South Carolina, made the decision to drop out of the show hours before the limo arrivals. As a result, only 30 women participated in the show. Episodes. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003005 Urgewald Urgewald is a group which researches coal companies, because they are among the top contributors to greenhouse gas emissions and so cause climate change. The Global Coal Exit List, which they publish, is famous. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003026 Pramila Mallik Pramila Mallik is an Indian politician. She was elected to the Odisha Legislative Assembly from Binjharpur as a member of the Biju Janata Dal. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003028 Wilczka Falls Nature Reserve The Wilczka Falls Nature Reserve - a landscape nature reserve located in Lower Silesia, Klodzko County, in the Bystrzyca Klodzka Municipality, near the town of Miedzygorze. Location and description. The reserve is located in the Snieznik Landscape Park, at an altitude of 570 m above sea level, within the Natura 2000 area. Established in 1958 on the area of 2.75 ha, the reserve comprises the area around the Wilczka Falls, basin and gorge. A 2012 decree stated that the area of the reserve was reduced to 2.65 ha, however, it later turned out that two subdivisions were mistakenly omitted. This error was corrected by the 2016 order, which restored the previous, correct value of 2.75 ha. The reserve consists of an old beech forest with fir, sycamore and spruce admixtures. The following plant species can be found here: cardamine glanduligera, galium odoratum, polygonatum verticillatum, prenanthes purpurea, hordelymus europaeus, athyrium filix-femina, phegopteris connectilis, dryopteris dilatata, lamium galeobdolon, and festuca altissima. The cool, dark and humid microclimate is also conducive to lush bryophyte vegetation. The bottom of the gorge and its mouth are overgrown with leper herb vegetation with moisture-loving plant species such as: white leopard's-foot trefoil, mountain love-grass, mountain water milfoil, and cinquefoil. Waterfall. Previously called "Wodogrzmoty Zeromskiego (Zeromski Falls)", the Wilczka Falls ("German: Wolfelsfall)" is located on the Wilczka River in the Snieznik Massif (Eastern Sudetes), near Miedzygorze. The height of the waterfall is 22 m. It is the second largest waterfall in the Polish Sudetes, after the Kamienczyk Falls. Before the great flood in 1997, the water was falling from a height greater by 5 meters. The flood erased an artificially made threshold from the beginning of the 19th century. Before 1945 the height of the waterfall reached as much as 30 m. The cascade falls from a 3 m wide sill into a small eversion basin carved in a less resistant shale. In winter a spectacular icefall is formed around the cascade. Tourism. The first known description of this place dates back to 1781, written by H. Reisser. The river gorge was then considered unbeaten until 1834, when two officers: Lutz and von Leuthold swam across it. Since the end of the 18th century the waterfall was a destination of frequent excursions from the nearby resorts of Ladek and Dlugopol-Zdroj. In the 19th century, during the reign of Princess Marianne of Orange, a small park with a fountain was created above the waterfall surrounded by a romantic garden[4]. On the initiative of the Negler siblings, stairs, railings and footbridges were built to access viewpoints and the bottom of the gorge. A fee was charged for visiting the waterfall. No traces of the former park layout have survived to the present day. Currently, sightseeing is open to the public along the trails marked out in the reserve. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003040 Lily of the Valley (album) Lily of the Valley is the debut studio album by Irish alternative rock band Funeral Suits. It was released on 4 June 2012, by Model Citizen Records. Singles. The first track from album, "Machines" was released as a music video on 5 February 2009. On 14 April 2011, Funeral Suits released the second music video "Colour Fade". Critical reception. In a review for "DIY", El Hunt wrote: "On the ominously named "Lily Of The Valley" - with all its symbolic associations with death and mourning -- the listener happily gobbles it up for breakfast lunch and tea. This is in part due to the band's impressive command of their craft, and also the album's place in the almost foolproof hands of Stephen Street." At "The 405", critic reviewer Alex Walker noted: "Although the record is not revolutionary, nor would it have been even if had been released a year and a half ago. It is however a very solid debut release; heartfelt and sincere, brimming with a variety of well conceived ideas. The band have a genuine knack for crafting big, epic, extravagant guitar moments complimented throughout by intelligent electronic arrangements." 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003100 Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County 4th constituency (1990-2011) The Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County constituency no. 4 () was one of the single member constituencies of the National Assembly, the national legislature of Hungary. The district was established in 1990, when the National Assembly was re-established with the end of the communist dictatorship. It was abolished in 2011. Members. The constituency was first represented by Laszlo Petronyak of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) from 1990 to 1994. Istvan Fule of the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) was elected in 1994 and served until 2006. Imre Ivancsik of the MSZP was elected in 2006 and served until 2010. In the 2010 election, Ildiko Janosine Bene of Fidesz was elected representative. Election result. 1990 election. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003108 Sudhamek Agung Waspodo Sunyoto Sudhamek Agung Waspodo Sunyoto (Indonesian old spelling, Sudhamek Agoeng Waspodo Soenjoto. Also known as Sudhamek or Sudhamek AWS) is member of Pancasila Ideology Development Agency Steering Committee since 7 June 2017. Prior this appointment, he was Chairman of GarudaFood Group. He currently is one of 150 Indonesian billionaires. On 13 October 2021, he appointed as National Research and Innovation Agency Steering Committee member. Early Life, Education, and Careers. Sudhamek was born from Chinese Indonesian family and last of 11 siblings. He is son of Darmo Putro, a Chinese, former Indonesian Revolutionary hero-turned-trader and later owner of PT. Tudung Putra Jaya, a small company at that time which trading tapioca flour, founded in 1958. Despite hailed from a quite financially well family, he was always bullied in school due to his unusual name given to him by his parents. Being bullied until high school resulted to his anxiety, trauma, and loss of confidence resulted in borderline marks during his school time. He regained his confidence after achieved best marks during his time as economy student at Universitas Kristen Satya Wacana (UKSW), Salatiga. Sudhamek was graduated from UKSW and obtained 2 degrees at nearly the same time. He obtained bachelor's degree in Economy in 1981 and bachelor's degree in Law on 1982 from UKSW. Despite his aspiration to continue his education to master's degree and went abroad, he did not afford it at that time due to financial limitation of his family. He later worked at Gudang Garam for more than 13 years, enriching his experience by-trade in business and management. He later returned to his family business and continuing it until finally become GarudaFood Group. On 23 January 2016, he granted "doctor honoris causa" in Economy from his alma mater, UKSW. Personal life. Sudhamek married to Lanny Rosiana in 1990. From the marriage, they had 3 children, 2 sons and 1 daughter. While he was not graduated from big university abroad and/or had higher than bachelor's degree, his children were graduate from renowned university with his 2 elder sons, Adhitya and Yudie completed their bachelor's degree from University of Michigan, Ann Arbor and master's degree at Babson University, and his only daughter, Henny was graduated from LASALLE College of the Arts. Sudhamek is a Buddhist from Mahayana school. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003119 James Needham (mycologist) James Needham (1849-1913) was an English mycologist and iron moulder from Hebden Bridge, Yorkshire. He was introduced to fungi by Charles Crossland. He was a founding member of the British Mycological Society. Notable for his working-class status, Needham became one of the foremost collectors of fungi and bryophytes in the UK. He was instrumental, along with Henry Thomas Soppitt, in the discovery of a heteroecious lifecycle in a "Puccinia" species. He was also amongst the first proponents of plant and fungal ecology in Great Britain. His collections and archives are dispersed across the UK including Leeds Museum and Tolson Museum. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003137 Climate 200 Climate 200 is an Australian fund that aims to donate money to candidates who want to advance climate policy. Background. The convenor of Climate 200 is Simon Holmes a Court, who was a part of Josh Frydenberg's fundraising group, the Kooyong 200. With a background in renewable energy and climate policy, Holmes a Court wrote an article in 2018 that was critical of the Coalition's efforts to keep coal fire power stations open. Holmes a Court was thrown out of the group within 24 hours after the article was released, but this gave him an insight into major fundraising for campaigns. The name of his fund is a tongue in cheek reference to the Kooyong 200. The goals of the fund is to support community independents and to fight back against the major parties who have written the election rules to their own advantage, and have failed to put forward a credible climate policy. Election campaigns. 2019 federal election. In the lead-up to the 2019 federal election the group raised over $500,000 and donated the money mostly to independent candidates, but also donated to the campaign of Adam Bandt of the Greens. 2022 election campaign. For the next federal election, the group is planning to target a number of seats held by the Liberal Party. Many of the seats have grassroots 'Voices' groups that intend to run independent candidates. The group announced a number of high-profile former independent MP's to join their advisory panel. The focus of the group is to get more people on the crossbench who aim to strengthen climate policy. Because much of their activity happens in Liberal held seats, various members of the Liberal party have attacked them as a front for the Greens, and questioned where their money comes from, and asking the Australian Electoral Commission to look into their finances. In October 2021 the group announced that they had raised $2 million in 6 weeks. By December 2021 that had grown to $6.5 million from 6750 donors. The group has also conducted polling in some of the seats that they planned to support. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003150 Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County 5th constituency (1990-2011) The Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County constituency no. 5 () was one of the single member constituencies of the National Assembly, the national legislature of Hungary. The district was established in 1990, when the National Assembly was re-established with the end of the communist dictatorship. It was abolished in 2011. Members. The constituency was first represented by Istvan Molnar of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) from 1990 to 1994. Imre Farkas of the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) was elected in 1994 and served until 2010. In 2010 election followed by Istvan Sagi of Fidesz. Election result. 1990 election. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003191 NSK Trade City NSK Trade City Sdn Bhd, doing business as NSK Trade City and colloquially known as NSK, is a network of local wholesalers and retailers based in Malaysia. The company's name "NSK" is short for New Seng Kee. It operates in the grocery stores industry and was incorporated on 28 August 2003. The net profit margin of NSK Trade City Sdn Bhd increased by 1.37% in 2019. History. NSK started off as a family business by the Lim family, selling daily groceries and household goods at Pasar Chow Kit in 1985. Somewhere in 1991, the company then grew from a small kiosk business to a big retail store that offers a variety of grocery and household items which was located along Jalan Raja, Kuala Lumpur. In December 2018, NSK officially opened its 21th outlet at the ground floor of BMC Mall in Bandar Mahkota Cheras and a total RM8mil had been invested for the construction of the huge outlet. On 31 December 2020, NSK launched its 30th outlet at Star Avenue Lifestyle Mall located in Shah Alam. The outlet is one of the mall's anchor tenant spanning across 36,000 sq ft. List of branches by location. This is a list of NSK hypermarkets, NSK Trade City and NSK Grocer outlets in Malaysia as of October 2021. NSK Trading Sdn. Bhd. is also included in this list and was also established as a small retail wholesaler. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003197 Athletics at the 2019 European Games - Men's 110 metres hurdles The men's 110 metres hurdles event at the 2019 European Games in Minsk took place on 23 June. The winners in this discipline were determined during the qualifications for Dynamic New Athletics. Results. Wind:#lt;br#gt; Match 1: -0.8 m/s, Match 2: +1.4 m/s, Match 3: -0.3 m/s, Match 4: +1.3 m/s 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003205 1983 Hindu Kush earthquake The 1983 Hindu Kush earthquake occurred south of Fayzabad, Badakhshan in northeast Afghanistan, near the border with Pakistan and the USSR (now Tajikistan). Striking 214.5 km beneath the Hindu Kush mountains, the moment magnitude 7.4 quake affected three countries, killing at least 26 people and injuring several hundred. Tectonic setting. The Afghanistan-Pakistan-Tajikistan border region lies within the broad zone of ongoing crustal deformation caused by continental collision between the Indian Plate and the Eurasian Plate. The area is seismically active, particularly as a result of faulting at just over 200 km depth within the downgoing slab, producing intraplate earthquakes. Many large greater than magnitude 7.0 have been observed in the Hindu Kush, all with similar epicenters, with an approximate periodicity of about 10-15 years. These events have reverse fault focal mechanisms, which for the near-vertical slab indicates active extension. It has been proposed that these earthquakes are a result of "necking" of the downgoing slab, a process that may eventually lead to break-off. Smaller shallow focus earthquakes are also observed in the region, particularly associated with north-south trending zones of right lateral strike-slip, such as the Chaman Fault, with an increasing degree of shortening to the north, together accommodating the highly oblique convergence between the Indian Plate and the Eurasian Plate. Earthquake. The most recent large event of this type was the October 2015 Hindu Kush earthquake which killed over 300 people. The earthquake of 1983, together with that of 1993, 2002, and 2015 occurred in close proximity with each other. Events like these are considered an "earthquake next". The focal mechanism according to the U.S. Geological Survey indicated intermediate-depth reverse faulting. The seismogenic fault beneath the Hindu Kush is thought to have produced four magnitude 7.3-7.5 earthquakes between 1949 and 2015, and two 7.0 events in 1974 and 1993. The magnitude 7.3-7.5 earthquakes had an estimated 1.2 meters, and 0.7 meters for the 7.0 earthquakes, resulting in a total displacement of 6.2 meters along the same fault through 1949 and 2015, distributed across six earthquakes. Vertical necking or stretching of the rapidly moving (10 cm/yr) downgoing slab in the vicinity of the source fault encourages a high slip rate of 9.6 cm/year. The estimated slip rate is much faster than the 1 cm/yr convergent rate at the surface. Waveform inversion using the Bayesian information criterion revealed the earthquake consisted of two subevents with the latter about 20 km away from the first subevent. The first event occurred near the hypocenter along the fault. It's estimated that the latter subevent released seven times the seismic moment of the former. Other events. Two years after the 1983 quake, the Hindu Kush region was hit with another magnitude 7.4 quake. It struck with an epicenter 30 km southwest of the 1983 event at 98.7 km beneath the mountains. Five people died and 38 were injured in the Chitral and Swat districts of Pakistan. That quake triggered rockslides and avalanches throughout the Hindu Kush and Himalaya region. It had a maximum intensity of VIII ("Severe") felt at Khorog and Qurgonteppa, USSR. The earthquake was also felt strongly at New Delhi, India. Impact. A total of 26 people died; 12 in Kabul and Samangan, Afghanistan, and 14 at Peshawar, Pakistan. Several hundred people suffered injuries in Pakistan while 483 were reported in Afghanistan. Damage was also reported in the USSR, now Tajikistan. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003214 Georgi Gongadze (footballer) Georgi Mikhailovich Gongadze (; born 20 March 1996) is a Russian professional footballer who plays as a forward for FC SKA-Khabarovsk. Career. He made his debut in the Russian Professional Football League for PFC Dynamo Stavropol on 12 March 2017, in a game against FC Biolog-Novokubansk. He played the full match. As a member of FC SKA Rostov-on-Don, he became one of the top scorers in the Russian Professional Football League, scoring 17 goals. He made his debut in the Russian Football National League for FC Torpedo Moscow on 10 July 2021 in a game against FC Kuban Krasnodar. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003246 Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County 6th constituency (1990-2011) The Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County constituency no. 6 () was one of the single member constituencies of the National Assembly, the national legislature of Hungary. The district was established in 1990, when the National Assembly was re-established with the end of the communist dictatorship. It was abolished in 2011. Members. The constituency was first represented by Albert Toth of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) from 1990 to 1994. Istvan Tokar of the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) was elected in 1994 and served until 1998. In 1998 Lajos Busi of Fidesz was elected representative. Endre Rozsa of the MSZP was elected in 2002 and served until 2010. In 2010 election followed by Istvan Boldog of Fidesz. Election result. 1990 election. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003260 Duchy of Brzesc Kujawski The Duchy of Brzesc Kujawski, also known as the Duchy of Kuyavian Brest, was a district principality in the Central Europe, in the region of Kuyavia. Its capital was Brzesc Kujawski. It was formed on 3 January 1268 in the partition of the Duchy of Kuyavia. Its first ruler was duke Wladyslaw I Lokietek of the Piast dynasty. The state was conquered by the State of the Teutonic Order in 1332, during Polish-Teutonic War, with its capitol being captured on 21 April. Until 1300, it was an independent state, after what, it had become a fiefdom within the Kingdom of Poland, that in 1320, got transformed into the United Kingdom of Poland. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003267 Madinawa The Madinawa are Islamic Leaders that claimed to be a clan of Sharifian descent and traced their lineage to the family of the Islamic prophet Muhammad through his grandson Hassan ibn Ali. They are related to the Alaouite dynasty of Morocco, and are said to have migrated to Kano Emirate due to conflicts and wars within the Moroccan monarchy. The claim of being descendants of Muhammad enabled them to be regarded as a kind of nobility, with them becoming privileged in the chieftaincy system of the Kano Emirate. They were additionally believed to possess "baraka", or blessing power. Claiming this lineage also served to justify authority as the Idrisi dynasty (788-974), the Saadi dynasty (1510-1659), and the 'Alawi dynasty (1631-present) all claimed lineage from Ahl al-Bayt. In Kano Emirate, they are referred to as Awliya Madinawa Malamai by some people, in reference to the city of Medina where they claimed to have originated from, situated in Western Saudi Arabia. Most of their ancestors were Islamic saints. History. The Alawite dynasty from Tafilalt rose to power through its own claims of prophetic lineage as well as its alliances with "shurafa"' families in Fes, especially the Idrisid family, descendants of the founder of Fes, Idris II.Beginning during the reign of Sultan Ismail Ibn Sharif (1672-1727), the Makhzen began to officially document and verify lineages, restricting the number of families that could receive tax cuts and other benefits on the basis of their "sharifi" lineage. On the death of Ismail ibn Sharif, the throne was ascended to by Abu'l Abbas Ahmad of Morocco on 22nd March, 1727. He was deposed in 1728 by Abdalmalik of Morocco, yet he was restored briefly afterwards at Oued Beht. He was deposed once more, on the day of his death on 5 March 1729 at Meknes. He was succeeded by his half-brother Abdallah of Morocco. Moulay Abdalmalik was earmarked as his father's successor until he fell from favour and was replaced as heir by his two years younger full-brother Abu'l Abbas Ahmad of Morocco in 1727. Abu'l Abbas Ahmad of Morocco proved quite ineffective as a ruler, he was overthrown in a coup instigated by his own wives. Moulay Abdelmalik was proclaimed Sultan, but failed to prevent his brother's escape and made the mistake of criticising the fiercely loyal "bukhari" (the imperial black bodyguards). The "bukhari" then threw their support behind the ousted Abu'l Abbas Ahmad , thus throwing Morocco into yet another civil war. A compromise was reached between the brothers after bloody fighting, splitting Morocco into two kingdoms. Abu'l Abbas Ahmad was to have Meknes for his capital while Abdelmalik was to rule from Fez. Not content with this however, Abdelmalik arranged a face-to-face meeting with his brother with the intention of assassinating him. The attempt failed and Abdelmalik was sent off under guard to a remote prison, where he was later assassinated. The Madinawa claimed that due to power tussles and inter-family wars they migrated from Morocco to Northern Nigeria where they settled at Bakin Ruwa in Kano City before been appointed as Islamic religious leaders of the town of Kadawa in Warawa, Kano State by the Kano Emirate Council. On their way to Kano it was reported that they stayed for a while in Majiya, Borno and Sudan. Pre-colonial period. The Madinawa concentrated in the propagation of Islam in Northern Nigeria and the religious leadership of the community. Imam Ghali Kadawa, one of their tribesmen, was appointed as the spiritual leader and Imam of Kadawa, at Warawa by the Kano Emirate Council. 19th century changes. In the 19th century, a new merchant and bureaucratic class emerged from the Madinawa who exerted influence in Kano State and Nigeria's political landscape. Some of them inter-married with the royal houses of Kano and became traditional titleholders. They produced numerous imams, Islamic theologians, traditional title holders, bureaucrats and politicians in the Emirate of Kano, members of the dynasty identify themselves as Fulani, Hausa, Hausa-Fulani Arabs or Hausa-Fulani depending on their cultural assimilation, the claim of descent from the Arab tribe and the prophet is common in scholarly lineages throughout Northern Nigeria and the Sahara. Members of the dynasty that descended from the Jobawa clan on the maternal side are entitled to be appointed as Makaman Kano, due to the precedent established during the reign of Sarkin Kano Aliyu Babba, who appointed Sarkin Takai Umaru Dan Maisaje as Makaman Kano, whose link with the Jobawa is through his father's mother Habiba, the sister of Malam Bakatsine, the traditional requisite of agnatic descent was not considered in the appointment leading to the establishment of a precedent for the descendants of the Jobawa with paternal or maternal links to aspire to be appointed as Makaman Kano. An Awliya Madinawa Malamai clan member Abdullahi Aliyu Sumaila, the progenitor of the Muallimawa dynasty, has a link to the Jobawa through his paternal great-grandmother, the daughter of the Village head of Sumaila, Sarkin Sumaila Dansumaila Akilu, a bajobe and son of Makaman Kano Iliyasu. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003282 Athletics at the 2019 European Games - Women's javelin throw The women's javelin throw event at the 2019 European Games in Minsk took place on 23 June. The winners in this discipline were determined during the qualifications for Dynamic New Athletics. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003304 Regner Leuhusen Lieutenant General "Friherre" Regner Niels Carlsson Leuhusen (22 December 190010 March 1994) was a Swedish Army officer. Leuhusen served as commander of Varmland Regiment (1951-1953), and as Commanding General of the VII Military District (1957-1959) and the V Military District (1963-1966). Early life. Leuhusen was born on 22 December 1900 in Stockholm, Sweden, the son of "ryttmastare", "Friherre" Carl Leuhusen and his wife Lizinka (nee Sorensen). Career. Leuhusen was commissioned as an officer in 1921 and was assigned as a second lieutenant to Svea Life Guards. He was promoted to "underlojtnant" in 1923 and to lieutenant in 1926. Leuhusen became captain in the General Staff in 1935 and he served in Norrbotten Regiment in 1939 and was major at Military Academy Karlberg in 1941. He served as a teacher of land warfare at the Royal Swedish Air Force Staff College in 1941. Leuhusen was major in the General Staff Corps in 1942 and served as head of the Central Department in the Army Inspectorate ("Armeinspektionen") from 1942. He was promoted to lieutenant colonel in 1944 and served in Jonkoping-Kalmar Regiment in 1945. He was promoted to colonel in 1947 and was assigned to Svea Life Guards. Leuhusen then served as commander of the Swedish Infantry Gunnery School from 1946 to 1951 and of Varmland Regiment from 1951 to 1953. He was colonel in the General Staff Corps and served as chief of Section II in the Army Staff in 1953. Leuhusen was promoted to major general in 1957 and served as Commanding General, VII Military District between 1 April 1957 and 30 September 1959. He was then Commanding General, V Military District from 1959 to 1966. He retired from active service in 1966 and was promoted to lieutenant general on the reserve list. Besides his military career, Leuhusen was the King in Council's representative at the Central Board of the National [Swedish] Rifle Clubs ("Skytteforbundens overstyrelse") from 1947. He has also been credited by Major General Claes Skoglund with inventing motorized bikejoring (), based on skijoring, which is a way to pull military bicycles on a wire behind a motor vehicle to move large masses of light infantry faster. Personal life. In 1933, Leuhusen married Marie-Louise Cervell (1902-1994), the daughter of consul Gustaf Johanson and Anna (nee Valentin). They had two children: Carl Herman (1934-2010) and Caroline (born 1938). Leuhusen's brother-in-law was colonel Frank Cervell. From 1936 to 1963, Leuhusen owned a villa on Kopparbovagen 48 in Kopparbo in Kolmarden. He was the owner of Boxholm's manor in Ostergotland from 1962. Death. Leuhusen died on 10 March 1994. He was interred at Bastad's new burial ground, south of St. Mary's Church in Bastad. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003308 Renton Laidlaw Henry Renton Laidlaw (6 July 1939 - 12 October 2021) was a British golf broadcaster and journalist. Biography. Laidlaw was born in Morningside, Edinburgh in July 1939. He started working as a copytaker, compiling sports results. Laidlaw then moved to the Edinburgh Evening News, working for five years as a junior reporter, before becoming a golf writer in 1962. He then moved into television and radio, becoming one of the best recognised commentators in the sport. He also presented "Sport on 2" and "Sports Report" between 1985 and 1987. Laidlaw retired in 2015 and latterly lived in Drumoig, near Pickletillum, Fife with his sister. He died in Ninewells Hospital, Dundee on 12 October 2021, at the age of 82. Two days before his death, Laidlaw had tested positive for COVID-19 amid the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003310 K. Krishnan Kongasseri Krishnan (1916 - 13 February 1976) was an Indian politician and leader of Communist Party of India. He represented Mannarkkad constituency in 1st KLA and 2nd KLA. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003346 Emma Laird Emma Laird (born September 8, 1998) is a British actress who played roles in short films "Short Life" (2018) and "In Conversation With a Goddess" (2019). She played a main role in the streaming series "Mayor of Kingstown" as Iris, a high-end call girl, in 2021. Additionally, Laird has been listed as one of the "10 Brits to Watch" in 2021 by "Variety". Career. Laird began her career with roles in short films "From Life" and "In Conversation With a Goddess". In April 2021, she was cast in a leading role in Paramount+ series "Mayor of Kingstown" as Iris, "a dancer who uses her charms to her benefit, until those charms are used against her". She has also been offered roles in Amazon Prime Video's "The Boys" and "The Peripheral" and Netflix's "The School for Good and Evil". "The Hollywood Reporter" described her handling of concurrent offers as "li[ghting] up the town's buzz meter". In October 2021, "Variety" included Laird in their annual list of "10 Brits to Watch". 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003351 Iranian fuel export to Lebanon In 2021, Iran sent five fuel tankers, all under the flag of Iran, to Lebanon. Since the financial crisis of Lebanon on August 2019, the country is experiencing a chronic shortage of fuel. The tankers were loaded from Iranian ports, after reaching the Syrian port, be trucked to Lebanon. Shipment delivery was made for Hezbullah. Background. On August 2019, due to various financial problems, the black market exchange rate began to change from the official exchange rate. The USD black market exchange rate remains to fluctuate substantially due to the devaluation of the Lebanese pound caused by sharp USD shortages within Lebanon. The Lebanese pound has lost about 90% of its value. The Guardian reported: the resulting hyperinflation, made by adverse trading situations during the COVID-19 pandemic, grossly irresponsible financial mismanagement of Lebanon's politicians and bankers, has caused subsidies of essential foodstuffs, medicine, and fuel to no longer cover their true cost. Fuel shortages have made extensive electricity cuts and led to long lines at filling stations. The World Bank has declared one of the world's worst economic crises since the mid-1800s. Export by Iran. On 19 August 2021, Sayyed Hassan Nasrallah, secretary-general of Hezbollah announced on televised speech Iranian fuel will sail from Iran toward Lebanon "within hours". Before, Nasrallah claimed: Tehran has accepted to trade with Lebanon using the Lebanese pound. On 2 September, the first Iranian ship arrive at Syria's Mediterranean port in Baniyas. On 13 September, Nasrallah said: the first Iranian fuel ship has reached Syria for land transfer. Then, the fuel shipment was transported by tanker trucks via Syria to the eastern Lebanese town of Baalbek. It would arrive in Lebanon by 16 September. On 24 September, Nasrallah claimed that a second Iranian fuel vessel has arrived in the Syrian port, also a third and a fourth fuel vessel sails towards Lebanon. They respectively carrying gasoline and fuel oil. Nasrallah claimed in his speech: at the first, the fuel will be donated to institutions like orphanages, public hospitals, water stations, nursing homes, and the Lebanese Red Cross for one month. Payment. Nasrallah claimed: the cost of the fuel were paid by Lebanese Shia businessmen. Reactions. Lebanon. Nasrallah said: our aim is not to trade or profit but also our aim is to alleviate the suffering of the people. He warned the Zionist regime and the U.S. against intercepting Iranian fuel vessels since as they are considered Lebanese territory. On 1 September 2021, the energy minister of Lebanon, Raymond Ghajar said: the Lebanese government has not received any request to import fuel from Iran. Hussein Hajj Hassan and Ali Hamieh New Public Works #amp; Transport Minister of Lebanon, claimed The US Blockade on Lebanon is broken. Prime Minister of Lebanon, Najib Mikati said in CNN interview, The Lebanese government has not intervened in the operation. He called the operation a violation of Lebanese sovereignty. According to The New York Times and the BBC, the Lebanese people celebrated the arrival of the first fuel trucks. they thanked Iran, Hezbollah, and Bashar al-Assad while carrying their flags. Iran. Hossein Amir-Abdollahian, current foreign minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran, said: we will supply the Lebanese government's need for fuel and will help them to resolve the problems faced due to the fuel shortage. Previously, he said Iran had sold fuel to a "Lebanese businessmen". Israel. Amnon Shefler, Israeli military spokesman, claimed: This is Iran's attempt to export its revolution and promote its agents. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003380 2021-22 Premier League Cup The 2021-22 Premier League Cup is the eighth edition of the competition. The defending champions are Everton, who won the 2018-19 competition. The previous two editions of the competition were cancelled, or not completed due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the United Kingdom. Participants. Category 4. Salford City Qualifying round. A qualifying round was required to finalise the 32 teams that would enter the Group Stage. Group stage. The draw for the group stage took place on 25 August 2021. Teams play each other twice, with the group winners and runners-up advance to the round of 16. Group A. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group B. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group C. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group D. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group E. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group F. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group G. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; Group H. #lt;onlyinclude#gt;#lt;/onlyinclude#gt; 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003405 Victor Gregg Victor James Thomas Gregg (15 October 1919 - 12 October 2021) was a British author, columnist and World War II veteran. Gregg joined the armed forces in 1937, and fought in North Africa and at the Battle of Arnhem. He survived the bombing of Dresden and, after the war, worked as a spy. His best known book is "Rifleman: A Front Line Life", published in 2011. A prequel, "King's Cross Kid", was published in 2013. Both were co-written with Rick Stroud. Biography. Gregg was born in King's Cross, London on 15 October 1919, the eldest of three children. He joined the British Army in 1937, signing up for 21 years; he first joined the Rifle Brigade in India and Palestine at the age of 19, before serving in the Western Desert. Before the Battle of Arnhem, he joined the 10th Battalion, Parachute Regiment. Victor was one of 582 men parachuted into Holland as part of the ill-fated Operation Market Garden. He was taken as a prisoner of war, and attempted twice to escape before being sent to work in a soap factory. After sabotaging the factory ---causing it to burn to the ground--- he was sentenced to death in Dresden, and only escaped due to Allied bombing in February 1945. He was discharged from the Army in 1946. Gregg turned 100 in October 2019. At the time, he was interviewed and stated that Brexit was "breaking his heart". Gregg died on 12 October 2021, three days shy of his 102nd birthday. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003475 Roberts v Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association is a judicial decision of the English Court of Appeal in relation to the proper law to govern contribution claims in cross-border torts. The plaintiff, Harry Roberts, was born in Germany and alleged that he had been injured as a result of the alleged negligence of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association (the "SSAFA") at the time of his birth. Through his mother he brought legal proceedings against the SSAFA and the Ministry of Defence in the United Kingdom. The SSAFA and the Ministry of Defence then served third party contribution notices on the German hospital, alleging that if there was fault in the birth of Harry Roberts, the hospital was partially responsible. All parties agreed that any tort which had occurred would be governed by German law. The German hospital argued that any right of third party contribution against it was barred because under German law the relevant limitation period had expired. However the SSAFA and the Ministry of Defence argued that the right of contribution was governed not by German law but by English law instead, where the limitation period had not yet expired. The Court of Appeal unanimously ruled that the contribution claim was to be determined by English law, and so the relevant limitation period had not expired. Facts. Harry Roberts was born on 14 June 2000 in the Allegemeines Krankenhaus in Viersen, North-Rhine Westphalia, Germany which was a hospital providing medical services to families and members of UK Armed Forces in which his father was a serving member. The plaintiffs claimed that Harry suffered an acute profound hypoxic brain injury. His injuries were severe. He had level 5 cerebral palsy and had no independent mobility, and was confined to a wheelchair. He brought legal proceedings in England through his mother as litigation friend (even though he was over 18 at the time the claim was brought, his mental condition resulted in him being a protected party under the English civil procedure rules). He alleged that the negligent failings of the midwife who attended his mother's labour in the latter stages and who is employed by the SSAFA, caused his injuries. The defendants disputed liability, but issued proceedings against the German hospital that in the event they were found to be liable, that the hospital should make a contribution to the damages under Part 20 of the Civil Procedure Rules. The German hospital disputed liability as well, and further argued that as against them the limitation period had expired under German law. Under the Private International Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1995 (which applied at the time), any alleged tort was governed by German law. However, in the English courts any right of contribution was governed by the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978, and it was argued that the 1978 Act mandated English law to govern the contribution claims even though German law governed the tort claims. Accordingly, as a preliminary issue it had to be determined which law governed the contribution claim. The preliminary issue was agreed by the parties, and certified by Master Yoxall in following terms: ". the relevant question for the purposes of the trial of the preliminary issue is whether or not the 1978 Act has mandatory or overriding effect and applies automatically to all proceedings for contribution brought in England and Wales, without reference to any choice of law rules. If not, German law will apply to the Defendants' claims for contribution against the Part 20 Defendant and they will be time-barred." High Court. In the High Court the preliminary issue came before Mrs Justice Foster, who ruled that the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978 mandated the application of English law to the contribution claims, and thus the proceedings against the German hospital could continue in England even though they were statute barred in Germany. Court of Appeal. Lead judgment. In the Court of Appeal the lead judgment was given by Lord Justice Irwin. He began by summarising the facts and then discussing the background to the 1978 Act. He then considered the various authorities relating to the Act and the issue of the proper law to govern contribution claims. He noted that the editors of Dicey Morris #amp; Collins (12th edition) expressed the view that the proper law of the claim would govern the contribution claim as well. He also reviewed the only decision on the point - the first instance decision of Chadwick J in "Arab Monetary Fund v Hashim" ("The Times", 11 October 1994). In that decision Chadwick J had held that the effect of the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978 was to apply English law to all contribution claims, irrespective of the law which governed the underlying liability. He noted that the decision in "Hashim" had been subject to a great deal of academic criticism, including most notably by Professor Adrian Briggs writing in the Lloyd's Commercial and Maritime Law Quarterly. who attacked the decision stating: "The blanket application of English law to the substance of the contribution claim is inappropriate", and criticising the inevitable "anarchy of separated parts of a single story". Irwin LJ also noted that other academic commentators had also been critical, including Professor Robert Stevens and Dr Charles Mitchell. He further noted that the Law Commission of England and Wales had, prior to the decision in "Hashim", expressed the view that contribution claims should also be governed by the proper law of the underlying claim. He then turned to the interpretation of the Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978 itself. He noted that there was a presumption that statutes were not intended to have extra-territorial effect ("Clark (Inspector of Taxes) v Oceanic Contractors Inc" [1983] 2 AC 130 at 145). The issue, he held, involved not one question, but two: firstly, what is the proper law of the liability in question; and secondly, whether that choice of law is overridden by the mandatory rules of the forum. A statute could be given such effect either expressly or by implication. He cited Lord Sumption in at para [29] that for a statute to have overriding effect by implication it would be necessary that: (i) the terms of the legislation cannot effectually be applied or its purpose cannot effectually be achieved unless it has extra-territorial effect; or (ii) the legislation gives effect to a policy so significant in the law of the forum that Parliament must be assumed to have intended that policy to apply to any one resorting to an English court regardless of the law that would otherwise apply. In construing the legislation, Irwin LJ felt the decisive issues were the references in sections 1(6) and 2(3)(c) which referred expressly to foreign law. In particular, section 1(6) provided: ... it is immaterial whether any issue arising in any such action was or would be determined (in accordance with the rules of private international law) by reference to the law of a country outside England and Wales. He noted that section 7(3) also stated that the Act superseded "any right" which he construed to include any right under foreign law. Taken as a whole, he formed the view that the 1978 Act was intended to have overriding application and apply English law to the issue of contribution in all cases. Concurring judgments. Both the other members of the court gave short supporting judgments. Phillips LJ summarised the decision: "The creation of (i) a statutory right of contribution as between persons notwithstanding that the liability of one or more of them arises under foreign law and (ii) the exclusion of other rights of contribution (save for express contractual rights) can and should be read together as giving rise to the plain implication that the 1978 Act has extraterritorial effect." David Richard LJ agreed with the other two members of the Court that the appeal should be dismissed, and that it was "inescapable that the 1978 Act is intended to have extra-territorial effect, in the sense that claims lie under it even though, applying the principles of private international law, they would be governed by a foreign law." But he disagreed with the other two members of the Court in that he did not view section 7(3) as definitive. He viewed that section as supporting either conclusion. Supreme Court. Permission to appeal to the Supreme Court has been granted. The appeal is expected to be heard in the Spring of 2022. Commentary. The case was reviewed in the Law Quarterly Review, commenting that "[f]rom the point of view of the conflict of laws, the result could fairly be characterised as disappointing", and noting the disparity that this creates between choice of law rules for contribution claims against a third party on the hand (which will always be determined by English law), and contributory negligence claims against the plaintiff on the other (which will be determined by the governing law of the tort or contract). It also expressed concern that the decision in "Roberts" would still be regarded as good law under the subsequent Rome II Regulation rules because of the effect of article 16. A blog post by Professor Andrew Tettenborn referred to the ruling in critical terms, stating: "The decision will hardly do much for comity; nor does the result make much sense as part of a sensible scheme of private international law, since where it applies it is an open invitation to come and do some socially-distanced forum-shopping in England." However he added that the decision was of limited importance, as it related to the Private International Law (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1995 and expressed the view that the Rome II Regulation (which would now apply) would probably produce a different outcome. Another article noted "[t]his is an important decision with significant practical effect for clinical negligence litigation involving contribution claims in an international context", but cautioned "this case was not governed by the Rome II Regulation". 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003493 NASCAR engine NASCAR, the highest governing body and top level division for stock car racing, has used a range of different types of engine configurations and displacements over its 72-year history; since its inaugural season in 1949. The engines are currently used in the Cup Series, Xfinity Series, Camping World Truck Series, and the Whelen Modified Tour. Overview. The cars are currently powered by EFI V8 engines, since 2012, after 62 years using carburetion as engine fuel feed with compacted graphite iron blocks and pushrod valvetrains actuating two-valves per cylinder, and are limited to a 358 cubic inch (5.9-liter) displacement. The 2011 Sprint Cup season was the last complete Cup season with carbureted engines; at the end of the 2011 season, NASCAR announced that it would change to an electronic fuel injection system for the 2012 racing season. NXS cars do, however, continue to use carburetors. However, modern technology has allowed power outputs near in unrestricted form while retaining the conventional basic engine design. In fact, before NASCAR instituted the gear rule, Cup engines were capable of operating more than 10,000 rpm. A NASCAR Cup Series engine with the maximum bore of and stroke of at 9,000 rpm has a mean piston speed of 80.44 fps (24.75 m/s). Contemporary Cup engines run 9,800 rpm, 87.59 fps (26.95 m/s), at the road course events, on Pocono Raceway's long front stretch, and at Martinsville Speedway (a .526-mile short-track). At the backbone 1.5- to 2.0-mile tri-oval tracks of NASCAR, the engines produce over 850 hp running 9,200-9,400 rpm for 500 miles, 600 mi for the Coca-Cola 600 Charlotte race. The current NASCAR Cup engines curb weight is roughly at . The 1949 Oldsmobile Rocket V-8, with a displacement of , is widely recognized as the first postwar modern overhead valve (OHV) engine to become available to the public. The Oldsmobile was an immediate success in 1949 and 1950, and all the automobile manufacturers could not help noticing the higher sales of the Oldsmobile 88 to the buying public. The motto of the day became "win on Sunday, sell on Monday." At the time, it typically took three years for a new engine design to end up in production and be available for NASCAR racing. Most cars sold to the public did not have a wide variety of engine choices, and the majority of the buying public at the time was not interested in the large displacement special edition engine options that would soon become popular. However, the end of the Korean War in 1953 started an economic boom, and then car buyers immediately began demanding more powerful engines. The Oldsmobile was an immediate success in 1949 and 1950, and all the automobile manufacturers could not help noticing that its victories resulted in noticeably higher sales of the Oldsmobile 88 to the buying public. The motto of the day became, "Win on Sunday, sell on Monday." During the early days of stock car racing, more horsepower ultimately meant more wins. The sleek and aerodynamic Hudson Hornet managed to win in 1951, 1952, and 1953, using a flat-head inline six-cylinder engine. In 1955, Chrysler produced the C-300 with its Chrysler FirePower engine OHV engine, which easily won in 1955 and 1956. In 1957, Chevrolet sold enough of their new fuel injected engines to the public in order to make them available for racing (and Ford began selling superchargers as an option), but Bill France immediately banned fuel injection and superchargers from NASCAR before they could race. However, even without official factory support or the use of fuel injection, Buck Baker won in 1957 driving a small-block V-8 Chevrolet Bel Air. In 1961, Ford introduced the F1 390 in a low drag Galaxie "Starliner", but 1960 and '61 championships were won by drivers in 409-powered Chevrolet Impalas. Pontiac introduced their "Super Duty" 421 in Catalinas that made use of many aluminum body parts to save weight, and the Pontiacs easily won in 1962. It became apparent that manufacturers were willing to produce increasingly larger engines to remain competitive (Ford had developed a 483 they hoped to race). For the 1963 season NASCAR engines were restricted to using a maximum displacement of , and using only two valves per cylinder. Then, in 1964 the new Chrysler 426 Hemi engine so dominated the series in a Plymouth Belvedere "Sport Fury", the homologation rules were changed so that 1,000 of any engine and car had to be sold to the public to qualify as a stock part, instead of just 500. This made the 426 Hemi unavailable for the 1965 season. In 1965 Ford adapted two single-overhead-cams to their FE 427 V8 to allow it to run at a higher RPM (called the Ford 427 Cammer). Ford started to sell "cammers" to the public to homologate it (mostly to dealer-sponsored privateer drag racers), but NASCAR changed the rules to specify that all NASCAR engines must use a single cam-in-block. But even without the cammer, the Ford FE 427 won in 1965. In the past, NASCAR Xfinity Series competitors made use of less powerful, V-6 engines; instead of Cup Series' V-8s. In 1989, NASCAR changed rules requiring cars to use current body styles, similar to the Cup cars. However, the cars still used V6 engines. The cars gradually became similar to Cup cars. 1994 was the final year that V6 engines were used in the Busch Series. In 1995, changes were made. The series switched to V-8 power, with a compression ratio of 9:1 (as opposed to 14:1 for Cup at the time). The introduction of V-8s, made the two series' cars increasingly similar. For the 2015 NASCAR Cup Series, power output of the competing cars ranged from 750 to 800 hp (560 to 600 kW). The current engines are limited to on tracks 1 mile or below; on tracks greater than one mile (2019) Modern contemporary NASCAR engines are capable of producing well over 2 hp/cu. in. (up to 2.5 hp/cu. in.). Next Gen NASCAR engines will be even less powerful. They will be rated at for restrictor plate racing, and for all other tracks; including road courses, short tracks, and ovals, up to the size of Darlington Raceway, and Nashville Superspeedway. NASCAR is due to switch to hybrid powertrains in 2024. NASCAR Whelen Modified Tour. NASCAR Whelen Modified Tour series stock cars are powered by small-block V-8 engines, usually of of displacement, although larger or smaller engines can be used. Engine components are largely similar to those used in the Cup Series, but Whelen Modified Tour engines use a small four-barrel carburetor (rated at per minute, about half the airflow of previous modified carburetors), which limits their output to . On large tracks such as New Hampshire Motor Speedway, the engines must have a restrictor plate between the carburetor and intake manifold, reducing engine power and car speed for safety reasons. Restrictor Plates. As a safety measure to reduce speeds at the two high-banked superspeedways (Daytona and Talladega), restrictor plates are used. There are some tracks, however, where restrictor plates are not mandated and therefore see faster speeds--specifically Atlanta Motor Speedway and Texas Motor Speedway. While Atlanta is generally considered the fastest track, restrictor plates are not mandated there. In 2004 and 2005, higher qualifying speeds were posted at Texas, earning it the title of the circuit's fastest track. Unrestricted, Sprint Cup cars produce over 750 horsepower (560 kW) and can run at speeds in excess of 200 mph. Rusty Wallace completed a 2004 test for NASCAR at Talladega in which he used an unrestricted motor to complete average lap speeds of and top speeds near . The 2010 width is 63/64-inch. This is the largest carburetor restrictor plate opening since the one-inch mandate in 1988, the first year the horsepower-reducing plates were used in the Cup Series at Daytona. Unfortunately, the restrictor plates have an unintended effect on the race. Because of the reduced horsepower of the cars, the cars form large packs. During a race, it is not uncommon to see thirty or more lead changes during a race. This also is the source of the Big One. When a driver crashes, usually, they take that pack with them. During the 2010 Coke Zero 400, 21 of the 43 cars crashed. This is a safety concern that has puzzled NASCAR. However, an unexpected consequence of the introduction of the Car of Tomorrow and re-paving of Daytona and Talladega track surfaces has been the separation of the pack into two-car pairs. Since the 2012 season, NASCAR Cup cars now have fuel injection instead of carburetors, but restrictor plates are still being used. Beginning in 1971, NASCAR rewrote the rules to effectively force the Ford and Chrysler specialty cars out of the competition by limiting them to 305c.i. (5.0L). The cars affected by this rule include the Ford Talladega, Mercury Spoiler II, Dodge Charger 500, Dodge Charger Daytona and the Plymouth Superbird. This rule was so effective in limiting performance that only one car that season ever attempted to run in this configuration. In 1971, NASCAR handicapped the larger engines with a restrictor plate. By 1972, NASCAR phased in a rule to lower the maximum engine displacement from 429 cubic inches (7.0 liters) to its present 358 cubic inches (5.8 liters). The transition was not complete until 1974 and coincided with American manufacturers ending factory support of racing and the 1973 oil crisis. After a series of flips and dangerous crashes in the 1980s, NASCAR began requiring all cars to run a restrictor plate at Daytona and Talladega. The restrictor plate limits air into the engine, reducing horsepower and speed at these tracks from 230-240 mph to 195-200 mph. At these races, in addition to the restrictor plate, there are a variety of other technical rules and regulations to keep the cars stable and on the track. In addition to these technical rules, restrictor-plate races and road courses are the only races where NASCAR enforces track limits. At the high-speed superspeedways, track limits are marked by a double yellow line separating the apron from the racing surface. Exceeding track limits to advance one's position is subject to a drive-through penalty, or if the foul occurs on the last lap that car will be relegated to the last car on the lead lap in official race results. The superspeedway track limits (often referred as the "yellow line rule") have been part of considerable criticism and controversies, such as when Regan Smith was stripped of second-place finish at the 2008 AMP Energy 500 following a last-lap pass attempt that went below the line and controversies surrounding the finish of the 2020 YellaWood 500, with former drivers turned television coverage pundits Dale Jarrett and Dale Earnhardt, Jr. (the latter being involved in a track limits controversy at the 2003 Aaron's 499) calling for the repeal of the rule. If track limits are violated on road courses (such as not making a chicane, enforced at Watkins Glen, Daytona, and Charlotte road courses), drivers must stop at an assigned point of the circuit or face a drive-through penalty. The NASCAR Cup Series and Xfinity Series mandated the use of restrictor plates at Daytona International Speedway and Talladega Superspeedway from 1988 to 2019. The plates were put into use in 1988 as a result of a wreck in the 1987 Winston 500 at Talladega that involved the car of Bobby Allison crashing into the front stretch catch fence at a high enough speed to destroy almost 100 feet of the fence and put the race under a red flag condition for two hours. The following race at Talladega that year would be run with a smaller carburetor, however, NASCAR mandated the use of the restrictor plate at the end of the season. The restrictions are in the interest of driver and fan safety because speeds higher than the 190 mph range used for Daytona and Talladega risk cars turning over through sheer aerodynamic forces alone. The severity of crashes at higher speeds is also much greater, shown by telemetry readings of wrecks such as Elliott Sadler at Pocono Raceway and Michael McDowell at Texas Motor Speedway that were far higher than registered on restrictor-plate tracks. Drivers such as Rusty Wallace have cited data showing that the roof flaps used on the cars cannot keep them on the ground above 204 MPH. The drawback to the use of the restrictor plates has been the increased size of packs of cars caused by the decreased power coupled with the drag the vehicles naturally produce. At Daytona and Talladega, most races are marred by at least one wreck, usually referred to as "the Big One", as cars rarely become separated. Talladega has been considered the more likely track for these instances to occur as the track is incredibly wide, enough to have three to four distinct lines of cars running side by side. With the new pavement at Daytona, three-wide racing became far easier, and multi-car wrecks became more common. The 2011 Daytona 500 saw a record number of cautions including an early 17-car pile-up. These wrecks tend to be singled out for criticism despite multicar crashes at other tracks and the generally greater severity of impact on non-restricted tracks. In addition, the packs were far smaller in 1988 through 1990 until more teams mastered the nuances of this kind of racing and improved their cars (and drivers) accordingly. The 2011 Sprint Cup season was the last complete Cup season with carbureted engines; at the end of the 2011 season, NASCAR announced that it would change to an electronic fuel injection system for the 2012 racing season. The injection system used by NASCAR is a different system from that used in IndyCar Racing and other motorsports series; the EFI system that NASCAR put into use was compatible with the old restrictor plates, allowing NASCAR to continue to use them to keep the speeds lower at the superspeedways and save costs for race teams. The restrictor plates were bolted beneath a throttle body that sits in the same place as the former carburetors. Tapered spacers have been used in NASCAR's Cup Series since 2015, when a 1.170-inch aluminum block reduced horsepower from about to approximately at several tracks. The 2019 rules package mandates those same-sized spacers at all tracks less than 1.33 miles. A 0.922-inch spacer will be used at all oval tracks 1.33 miles and above, which will decrease engine horsepower to about 550. The last race with the original restrictor plates was the 2019 Daytona 500; after that race, the cars moved to a variable-sized tapered spacer already used at all other tracks, with the exception that the spacer would have smaller holes than the ones used at the smaller tracks, to ensure speeds stay under 200 MPH. The shape of the spacer helps a car funnel more air smoothly into the manifold, increasing fuel performance, while ensuring airflow is still restricted. With that change, NASCAR also mandated the use of larger rear spoilers, larger front splitters, and specially-placed front-end aero ducts. The combination of those features increased drag on the cars, counteracting the increased horsepower, keeping the cars close to the speeds they were running prior to the switch to the tapered spacer. While the racing quality noticeably improved, and passing was made easier with larger horsepower and bigger runs, speeds also noticeably increased past 200 MPH, and even into 205 MPH ranges. Reason for restrictor plates. There have been four eras that NASCAR used restrictor plates. The first use came in 1970 as part of a transition from the seven-liter era (427 cubic-inch) to the six-liter era (358 cubic-inch) engine. Following testing and input from drivers such as David Pearson, Bobby Isaac, and Bobby Allison, NASCAR mandated the use of a restrictor plate for the big-block seven-liter engines. Small-block engines, in the 358 cubic inch range, were exempt from the plates; the first car to race with a small-block engine was Dick Brooks at the 1971 Daytona 500, where he ran a 1969 Dodge Daytona with a 305 CID engine. The transition period lasted until 1974, when the current 358 cubic-inch (5870cc) limit was imposed and NASCAR eliminated the 427 cubic-inch (7000cc) engine. As the early 1970s use of restrictor plates was considered a transitional process, and as not every car used restrictor plates, this is not what most fans call "restrictor plate racing". The second use came following the crash of Bobby Allison at the 1987 Winston 500 at Talladega Superspeedway. Allison's Buick LeSabre blew a tire going into the tri-oval at , spun around and became airborne, flying tail-first into the catch fencing. While the car did not enter the grandstands it tore down nearly 100 feet of fencing and flying debris injured several spectators. After a summer where the two subsequent superspeedway races were run with smaller carburetors (390 cubic feet per minute (cfm) instead of 830 cfm) proved to be inadequate to sufficiently slow the cars, NASCAR imposed restrictor plates again, this time at the two fastest circuits, both superspeedways: Daytona for all NASCAR-sanctioned races and Talladega for Cup races. The Automobile Racing Club of America also enforced restrictor plates at their events at the two tracks. In 1992, when the Busch Grand National series began racing at Talladega, the plates were implemented, in keeping with their use at Daytona. NASCAR's concerns with speeds because of power-to-weight ratios result in restrictor plates at other tracks. The Goody's Dash Series (known now as the ISCARS series with its new ownership) used restrictor plates at Bristol during at least the last years of the series' existence when the cars were using six-cylinder engines (compared to the traditional four-cylinder engines), in addition to their Daytona races. However, restrictor plates were not initially used for Camping World Truck Series trucks. Rather, aerodynamic air intake reduction through the use of a 390 cfm carburetor, and eventually a tapered carburetor spacer was implemented for those races. Combined with the aerodynamic disadvantage of the trucks, this allowed NASCAR to avoid the use of such equipment for the trucks until 2008. In 2008, the Nationwide Series (now known as Xfinity Series) and Truck Series began implementation of tapered spacers in the engines to restrict power compared to Sprint Cup cars at all 35 (NNS) and 25 (NCTS) races. Both these NASCAR series now use a restrictor plate and tapered spacer at the two tracks. The third use came in 2000. Following fatal crashes of Adam Petty and Kenny Irwin, Jr. at the New Hampshire International Speedway during the May Busch Series and July Winston Cup Series races, respectively, NASCAR adopted a one-inch (2.54 cm) restrictor plate to slow the cars headed towards the tight turns as part of a series of reforms to alleviate stuck throttle problems which were alleged to have caused both fatal crashes. For the Winston Cup race, it was used just once at the 2000 Dura Lube 300. Jeff Burton led all 300 laps in the ensuing race, despite a 23-car two-abreast battle in the first ten laps, a dramatic charge past 22 cars in 100 laps by John Andretti (who finished seventh), and two charges by Bobby Labonte in the final 50 laps where he took the lead but Burton beat him back to the stripe. The use of restrictor plates, intended as an emergency measure pending a more permanent replacement, in any event, was discontinued at New Hampshire for the following race for Cup only. However, the Modifieds still use a restrictor plate because the speeds are too great for that class of racecar without them. The track has since been changed with SAFER Barriers to improve racing safety. Restrictor plates remain a permanent fixture on the Modifieds and the racing has often broken 20 official lead changes for 100-125 laps of competition. Rusty Wallace tested a car at Talladega Superspeedway without a restrictor plate in 2004, reaching a top speed of in the backstretch and a one-lap average of . While admitting excitement at the achievement, Wallace also conceded, "There's no way we could be out there racing at those speeds. it would be insane to think we could have a pack of cars out there doing that." In 2016, following a series of uncompetitive races at Indianapolis Motor Speedway, NASCAR began a series of tests for the Xfinity Series using a smaller restrictor plate than used at Daytona and Talladega and aerodynamic aids. After the tests were successful, the rules package was imposed for the 2017 race at Indianapolis. For 2018, the package is being used at Indianapolis, Michigan, and Pocono for the Xfinity Series and in the All-Star Race in the Cup Series. The competitive quality of restrictor plate racing. A frequent criticism of restrictor plates is the enormous size of packs in the racing, with "Big One" wrecks as noted above singled out for condemnation despite the greater violence of "smaller" crashes on unrestricted tracks. In restrictor plate racing the packs have brought about an often-enormous increase in positional passing; at Talladega Superspeedway the Sprint Cup cars have broken 40 official lead changes sixteen times from 1988 onward, including both 2010 Sprint Cup races at Talladega, which had 87 official lead changes in the regulation 188 laps. (The 2010 Aaron's 499 had 88 lead changes, but the 88th - the race-winning pass by Kevin Harvick - was on the last lap of the third attempt at a green-white-checkered finish). Daytona International Speedway has generally been less competitive because the age of the asphalt (the track was repaved in 1978 and again in 2010) has reduced grip for the cars and thus handling has impeded passing ability to a significant extent. The 2000 New Hampshire race was condemned because Jeff Burton led wire to wire; the plates were singled out as impeding the ability to pass, a criticism contradicted by the use of restrictor plates in a Busch North support race the day before where the lead changed seven times in 100 laps and by the highly competitive nature of restrictor plated Modified races; as noted above the 300 also saw a 23-car battle for third in the first ten laps and a burst by 22 cars from John Andretti. The criticism stems from the reduction in throttle response brought by the restriction. The reduction in throttle response, however, has never been shown to have impeded the ability to pass; the criticism was shot down in the first "modern" plate race, the 1988 Daytona 500, as the lead changed 25 times officially and saw several bursts where the lead changed several times a lap and also several bursts of sustained side-by-side racing, notably in the final 50 laps between Bobby Allison, Darrell Waltrip, Neil Bonnett, and Buddy Baker. Said Waltrip before the race, "I feel, as a driver, now I can do more than I could before (the plates). Now, instead of a car just blasting by me with a burst of speed and a lot of horsepower, he's got to think his way, he got to "drive" his way around me." In the transitional years (1971-74) where the seven-liter engines (427 cu in) had restrictor plates, Daytona and Talladega broke 40 official lead changes six times, while Michigan International Speedway broke 35 official lead changes in both of its 1971 races. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003512 Operation Hyacinth (film) Operation Hyacinth is a 2021 Polish film directed by Piotr Domalewski, written by Marcin Ciaston and starring Tomasz Zietek, Hubert Milkowski and Marek Kalita. The drama is based on the Operation Hyacinth (Polish: "Akcja "Hiacynt""), which was a secret mass operation of the Polish communist police, carried out in the years 1985-87. Its purpose was to create a national database of all Polish homosexuals and people who were in touch with them. The film was well received by critics. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003537 Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978 The Civil Liability (Contribution) Act 1978 (c 47) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. The Act repealed the relevant common law and made new provision for contribution between persons who are jointly or severally, or both jointly and severally, liable for the same damage and in certain other similar cases where two or more persons have paid or may be required to pay compensation for the same damage; and to amend the law relating to proceedings against persons jointly liable for the same debt or jointly or severally, or both jointly and severally, liable for the same damage. The core principle of the Act is set out in section 1(1): Subject to the following provisions . any person liable in respect of any damage suffered by another person may recover contribution from any other person liable in respect of the same damage (whether jointly with him or otherwise). The Act applies to England, Wales and Northern Ireland. Interpretation. In it was held that "contribution" is not limited to a contribution in respect of damages. In "Rahman v Arearose Ltd" [2001] QB 351 it was held that the "same damage" meant the kind of indivisible injury as arises under common law in a case of concurrent torts. This was affirmed in . In the court held that the Act has extra-territorial effect, and that it would applied English contribution claims to torts that were otherwise governed by foreign laws. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003569 Pedro Gonzalez Bueno Pedro Gonzalez-Bueno y Bocos (12 January 1896 - 30 January 1985), most commonly known as Pedro Gonzalez Bueno, was a Spanish politician who served as Minister of Trade Union Organization and Action of Spain between 1938 and 1939, during the Francoist dictatorship. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003571 La Gitane (Ma tete tourne.) "La Gitane", also titled "La Gitane (Ma tete tourne.)" as on the second edition of the single cover, is a 1987 pop song recorded by French singer and songwriter Felix Gray. Written and composed by Gray, it was his debut single and was released in February 1988. It achieved success in France where it reached number three. The song has Spanish sounds. Its original title "La Gitane" was changed to "La Gitane (Ma tete tourne.)" after a massive airplay in order to identify easier the song (the words ""Ma tete tourne." are said in the chorus, while "La Gitane"" is never mentioned in the song). In 2016, the song was included on Gray's best of compilation "14 Succes", on which it appears as the fifth track. Chart performance. In France, "La Gitane (Ma tete tourne.)" debuted at number 42 on the chart edition of 27 February 1988, entered the top ten in its sixth week and remained there for 13 weeks; it reached number three for a sole week, in its 11th week, and fell off the top 50 straight from number 27 after 21 weeks of presence. It earned a Silver disc, awarded by the Syndicat National de l'Edition Phonographique. On the European Hot 100 Singles, it started at number 94 on 19 March 1988 and reached a peak of number eight in its tenth week, and remained on the chart for a total of 20 weeks, nine of them in the top 20. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003578 Zygmunt Ochmanski Zygmunt Ochmanski (2 October 1922 - 10 June 2003) was a Polish footballer. He played in one match for the Poland national football team in 1949. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003587 Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County 7th constituency (1990-2011) The Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County constituency no. 7 () was one of the single member constituencies of the National Assembly, the national legislature of Hungary. The district was established in 1990, when the National Assembly was re-established with the end of the communist dictatorship. It was abolished in 2011. Members. The constituency was first represented by Lajos Szabo of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) from 1990 to 1994. In the 1994 election, Sandor Buzas of Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) was elected representative. In 1998 elelction Imre Herbaly was elected of the MSZP and served until 2010. In 2010 election followed by Andor Fejer of Fidesz. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003594 Wladyslaw Olearczyk Wladyslaw Olearczyk (8 June 1898 - 21 February 1970) was a Polish footballer. He played in four matches for the Poland national football team from 1923 to 1925. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003614 Lechoslaw Olsza Lechoslaw "Ola" Olsza (born 28 February 1949) is a Polish former footballer playing as a midfielder and manager. He is primarily associated with two Upper Silesian football clubs; GKS Katowice and GKS Tychy. Playing career. Club. He brought to GKS Katowice from Zryw Chorzow by Jerzy Nikiel, debuting in a 1-0 win against Stal Rzeszow. In 1971 he was part of the squad that upset FC Barcelona at Camp Nou in 2-0 win. His greatest successes came with GKS Tychy however, winning the vice-championship in 1976, in what was the golden era for the club; this success earned him a call-up to the national team. In 1979 he spent a year with the then Third Division side Rozwoj Katowice before emigrating to Austria for 4 years, playing alongside other Poles such as Jozef Kwiatkowski and Jozef Kurzeja. International. He played in the 1972 UEFA European Under-23 Championship in a Group 8 match, coming on a substitute against Albania in a 2-1 win on 12 May 1971. He played in two matches for the Poland senior national team in 1976, making his debut against Greece. Managerial career. In between various non-footballing activities and multiple emigrations from Poland, over the years he has had various roles at GKS Katowice, ranging from first team coach, second coach, assistant manager, manager, director of football, kit man, manual labourer, and stoker. Personal life. He comes from a sporting family; his father Jozef played for Ruch Chorzow, his uncle Kazimierz Pietranek for Stal Sosnowiec. Lechoslaw's daughter Aleksandra is a former Wimbledon Junior Girls title holder, his wife Barbara a 29-time national tennis champion, and his son a professional sports coach with a doctorate in sports science. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003622 Ballinadee Church Ballinadee Church is a small Gothic Revival Anglican church located in Ballinadee, County Cork, Ireland. It was completed in 1759. It is part of the Bandon Union of Parishes, in the Diocese of Cork, Cloyne, and Ross. History. The church was originally built in 1759. The tower was added around 1837. Around this time, the church was also rebuilt. Ballinadee Church is one of five constituent churches of the Bandon Union of Parishes, of which Denis MacCarthy is the Canon. Architecture. The church building consists of a three-bay nave with a single-bay transept and a three-stage bell tower. The north transept was added by Henry Hill in 1869. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003629 Sarkin Madinawa Malamai Sarkin Madinawa Malamai is the official noble position of Islamic religious leadership held by the Banu Gha, Madinawa Malamai at Kadawa, Warawa.The holder of the position performs the duties of Shaykh al-Islam and advise the Kano Emirate Council on Islamic matters. History. Imam Ghali was the first person to hold the title, he participated actively in the establishment of the Islamic religion in Kano Emirate, some of his descendants claimed that he was a Sharifian and traced his descent from Prophet Muhammad, they claimed he descents from the Banu Hashim of the Quraysh Arabs, through the Sharifain royal Alaouite dynasty of Sharif ibn Ali and the Islamic prophet Muhammad, his descendants identify themselves as Fulani, Hausa, Hausa-Fulani Arabs or Hausa-Fulani depending on their cultural assimilation, they are called Madinawa Malamai in reference to Medina, the city they claim to originate from, the claim of descent from the Arab tribe and the prophet is common in scholarly lineages throughout Northern Nigeria and the Sahara. He was the Sarkin Madinawa and was appointed an Imam at Kadawa, Warawa by the Kano Emirate Council, during his tenure as an imam he advanced the acceptance of the Maliki School of thought in the Emirate by influencing later scholars to use the principles of the Maliki school of thought instead of the other Islamic school of thoughts, the Maliki school is one of the four major madhhabs of Islamic jurisprudence within Sunni Islam. It was founded by Malik ibn Anas in the 8th century. The Maliki school of jurisprudence relies on the Quran and hadiths as primary sources. Unlike other Islamic fiqhs, Maliki fiqh also considers the consensus of the people of Medina to be a valid source of Islamic law, the Maliki madhhab is one of the largest groups of Sunni Muslims, comparable to the Shafi`i madhhab in adherents, but smaller than the Hanafi madhhab. Sharia based on Maliki doctrine is predominantly found in North Africa (excluding northern and eastern Egypt), West Africa, Chad, Sudan, Kuwait, Bahrain, the Emirate of Dubai (UAE), and in northeastern parts of Saudi Arabia.Historical accounts report that he practiced zuhd asceticism. In the Kano Emirate he was regarded by some people as a Saint (Waliyi), he was buried at Kadawa, there is no record of the date of his death in the history books of the Emirate. Imam Ghali held the opinion that Muslims must believe in the Five pillars of Islam, in all the Prophets of Islam from Adam to Prophet Muhammad and in angels, he also held the beliefs about Allah's attributes that are unique such as existence, permanence without beginning, endurance without end, absoluteness and independence, dissimilarity to created things, Oneness, Allah is all powerful, willful, knowing, living, seeing, hearing and speaking (signifying attributes), his descendants and followers are presently divided into the Izala, Qadiriya and Tijaniya with the Tijjaniya taking the majority among his descendants while a few are sectless. One of the Imams of Kadawa Mosque, Warawa Local Government Sheikh Usaini Umar (Malam Bala) is his descendant. His dynasty was influential in the Kano Emirate after the Kano Civil War which saw the emergence of Aliyu Babba as the Emir of KanoThe dynasty he established has produced numerous imams, islamic theologians, traditional title holders, bureaucrats and politicians in the Sokoto Caliphate, In Kano Emirate his descendants are referred to as Awliya Madinawa Malamai by some people, in reference to the city of Medina where they claimed to have originated from, situated in Western Saudi Arabia and most of their ancestors being saints.His descendants who are descent of the Jobawa clan on the maternal side are entitled to be appointed as Makaman Kano, due to the precedence established during the reign of Sarkin Kano Aliyu Babba, who appointed Sarkin Takai Umaru Dan Maisaje as Makaman Kano, whose link with the Jobawa is through his father's mother Habiba, the sister of Malam Bakatsine, the traditional requisite of agnatic descent was not considered in the appointment leading to the establishment of a precedence for the descendants of the Jobawa with paternal or maternal links to aspire to be appointed as Makaman Kano. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003631 Jozef Oprych Jozef Oprych (18 February 1923 - 3 December 2006) was a Polish footballer. He played in one match for the Poland national football team in 1948. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003650 Pawel Orzechowski Pawel Orzechowski (15 December 1941 - 17 November 2016) was a Polish footballer. He played in four matches for the Poland national football team from 1964 to 1966. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003668 Jerzy Otfinowski Jerzy Otfinowski (25 September 1907 - 4 October 2000) was a Polish footballer. He played in one match for the Poland national football team in 1932. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003694 Joaquin Benjumea Joaquin Benjumea y Burin (17 January 1878 - 30 December 1963) was a Spanish politician who served as Minister of Agriculture and acting Minister of Labour of Spain between 1939 and 1941 and as Minister of Finance between 1941 and 1951, during the Francoist dictatorship. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003701 Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County 8th constituency (1990-2011) The Jasz-Nagykun-Szolnok County constituency no. 8 () was one of the single member constituencies of the National Assembly, the national legislature of Hungary. The district was established in 1990, when the National Assembly was re-established with the end of the communist dictatorship. It was abolished in 2011. Members. The constituency was first represented by Janos Szabo of the Hungarian Democratic Forum (MDF) from 1990 to 1994. In the 1994 election, Janos Kasuba of Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP) was elected representative. In 1998 elelction Mihaly Varga was elected of the Fidesz and served until 2014. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003706 Khu Fang Nuea Khu Fang Nuea (, ) is a "khwaeng" (subdistrict) of Nong Chok District, in Bangkok, Thailand. In 2020, it had a total population of 17,927 people. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003716 Anita Grunder Anita Lizzie Grunder is geologist known for her research on volcanic rocks and defining changes in volcanism over geologic eras. She is an elected fellow of the Geological Society of America. Education and career. Grunder has an A.B. in paleontology from the University of California, Berkeley (1977), and subsequently worked as a field assistant at UC Berkeley, the University of California, Los Angeles, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and the United States Geological Survey. She went to Stanford University for graduate school where she described her position as an "adventure" in a 1983 magazine article. She graduated in 1986 with a thesis project working on the geology of the southern Andes. Grunder moved to Oregon in 1986, ultimately becoming a professor and an associate dean. As of 2019, Grunder is professor emeritus at Oregon State. Research. Grunder is a field geologist who has worked on volcanoes and volcanic rocks in a variety of locations including Nevada, Oregon, and the Aucanquilcha region in Chile. Her early research was on the volcanic rocks and hydrothermal system at Calabozos crater in the Chilean Andes. She uses oxygen-18 isotopes in different types of rocks to reveal changes in magmatic activity over millions of years. In 2005, Grunder co-edited a collection of articles on welding processes in volcanic systems, and contributed an article on welded pyroclastic deposits from Oregon. In Hawaii, she worked on the sulfur dioxide released by the Kilauea volcano and collaborated with a graduate student working in public health, Bernadette Longo, to reveal increased health issues for people living downwind of the volcano. In 2020 she examined the geology of the volcanic material in the area surrounding Steens Mountain in southeastern Oregon. One of her students described her skills at explaining volcanic processes and noted that she is adept at making geology interesting to a range of people, both inside and outside academia. Awards and honors. In 2009, Grunder was named the Association for Women Geoscientists' Outstanding Educator. Her paper on volcanism and gold deposits in hydrothermal material at Yanacocha, Peru won the 2010 Brian J. Skinner award from Society of Economic Geologists. She is also an elected fellow of the Geological Society of America. Personal life. During a 2009 interview, Grunder noted her first job involved welding band saw blades because her lack of typing skills kept her from receiving a spot as a secretary. She is married to John Dilles, a geosciences professor in Oregon and has three children, and in 1989 she discussed a job sharing arrangement she and her husband made upon moving to Oregon State. Grunder volunteers in Oregon with the Independent Community Club, and one of their activities is the restoration of an old schoolhouse in Albany, Oregon that was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 2013. in 2008, she led the effort to found the Muddy Creek Charter School in Oregon. Her outside sculpture piece "Excess Baggage" developed collectively by Warren Lisser, Susie Lisser and Grunder was presented at Burning Man in 2013. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003721 Lam Phak Chi Lam Phak Chi (, ) is a "khwaeng" (subdistrict) of Nong Chok District, in Bangkok, Thailand. In 2020, it had a total population of 31,810 people. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003731 Ryedale Roman Bronzes The Ryedale Roman Bronzes (also known as the Ryedale Roman hoard) is an assemblage of Roman metalwork. Discovery. The assemblage was found by metal detectorists James Spark and Mark Didlick in a field near Ampleforth in Ryedale, North Yorkshire, in May 2020. Contents and significance. The assemblage comprises four pieces of metalwork, all of which are copper-alloys. They are: 1) a plumb bob, 2) a horse and rider figurine, 3) a figural horse head with an iron shank (probably a key), and 4) a figural bust (a sceptre head). The sceptre head is in the shape of an Emperor, probably Marcus Aurelius, and so dates to the late 2nd-century AD. In the Portable Antiquities Scheme record Dr John Pearce commented that the assemblage probably derived from a ritual context. Dr Andrew Woods, senior curator at the Yorkshire Museum, has described the find as being of "national significance and great rarity." Acquisition and public display. The assemblage comprised non-precious metals so did not qualify as treasure under the terms of the Treasure Act 1996. It was placed on public display at Hansons Auctioneers in London on 28th April 2021. It was originally valued at between PS70,000 and PS90,000. In May 2021 it was sold in the private auction for PS185,000. The Yorkshire Museum purchased the assemblage from David Aaron Ltd, who had originally bought it, with financial support from a private donor Richard Beleson and the Art Fund. They were displayed at the Frieze Art Fair in London from 13 to 17 October 2021 before being added to the Yorkshire Museum's collection. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003740 Salvador Moreno Salvador Moreno Fernandez (14 October 1886 - 2 May 1966) was a Spanish admiral who served as Minister of the Navy of Spain between 1939 and 1945 and between 1951 and 1957, during the Francoist dictatorship. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003741 Nicolas Bergeron Nicolas Bergeron is a French mathematician born on 19 December 1975, who works in Pierre and Marie Curie University in Paris. He is the managing editor of the journal Publications Mathematiques de l'IHES. Early Career. Bergeron obtained his Ph.D. at Ecole normale superieure de Lyon in the year 2000 under the supervision of Jean-Pierre Otal. His thesis was titled "Cycles geodesiques dans les varietes hyperboliques" ("geodesic cycles in hyperbolic varieties"). Work. Bergeron's main interests are concerned with the geometry and topology of locally symmetric spaces and arithmetic groups, as well as their cohomology. Some of his publications show an interest in Oulipo, referencing An Attempt at Exhausting a Place in Paris by Georges Perec. He has also written a (non-mathematical) article about Jacques Roubaud. He is currently the editor-in-chief of the journal Publications Mathematiques de l'IHES. 
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=69003744 Laguna Larga Laguna Larga is a town and municipality in the Impira District of the Rio Segundo Department, Cordoba Province, Argentina, from the provincial capital, Cordoba. It is beside National Route 9, from the Rosario-Cordoba Highway and from the RP 10, which connects with National Route 158 of Mercosur. Its urban plant is in size, in a checkerboard pattern with a service street that divides it into two smaller blocks, with 225 blocks. National Route 9, parallel to the Nuevo Central Argentino (NCA) railroad tracks, divides the town into north and south sectors. The north has more economic activity, while the south is basically residential. Sportspeople such as Paulo Dybala and Thiago Prieto Acosta were born in Laguna Larga. Geography. Laguna Larga is in the western part of the Rio Segundo Department, in Cordoba Province, Argentina. It is bordered on the north by Costa Sacate, on the east by Impira, on the west by Lagunilla and Pilar, and on the south by Manfredi. Population. It has 7437 inhabitants (INDEC, 2010), which represents an increase of 4.2% compared to the 7237 inhabitants (Indec, 2001) of the previous census. Landscape features. Laguna Larga is located in the region of the "Domain of the Eastern Plains" with very low slope (2 to 3 per thousand) from east to east-northeast, with altitudes of above sea level (west) to above sea level (east). The land's limitations for human use include water deficiency and salinity, alkalinity and waterlogging in the eastern depression. Seismicity. The seismicity of the Cordoba region is frequent and of low intensity, with a seismic silence of medium to severe earthquakes every 30 years in random areas. Flora. Laguna Larga is located in the "spinal domain", with growth on the mountains of "Prosopis alba" (white carob tree) and "Prosopis nigra" (black carob tree), along with "Ziziphus mistol" and "Prosopis kuntzei" (itin), "Geoffroea decorticans" (chanar), "Celtis ehrenbergiana" (desert hackberry) and "Vachellia aroma" (tusca). Climate. The region is located within the semi-dry continental temperate climate with sub-humid tendency and to of annual water deficit. It has warm summers and cold, but not harsh, winters. There is a predominance of winds from the northeast. In winter the winds from the south are more frequent. The average wind speed is . Hydrography. Laguna Larga is in the "Endorheic Basin of Mar Chiquita", on the northern slope of the watersheds of the Mar Chiquita basins and the Carcarana River system. The small slope and scarce percolation of the water favor flooding and the presence of lagoons and ravines. History. Laguna Larga was founded in 1869, but there are earlier references to it in history. A famous event was the battle between unitarians and federals on February 25, 1830, when forces of General Jose Maria Paz and Juan Facundo Quiroga clashed in the vicinity of the Cachicoya Lagoon, on the territory of the current town of Laguna Larga, better known since the twentieth century as the Battle of Oncativo. At the end of the 19th century the parish, school and cemetery were organized. 1958: Secondary school. 1960: The town reaches a population of 3,627. 1993: The town is connected to natural gas service. Infrastructure and services. Drinking water. Drinking water service is provided by the Cooperativa Electrica de Laguna Larga Ltda. (Laguna Larga Electric Cooperative Ltd.). The source is the water table. There are a storage tank and two pumps. Electricity. The urban and rural electricity service is provided by the Cooperativa Electrica de Laguna Larga Ltda. through the Provincial Interconnected Service (SIP) of EPEC (Empresa Provincial de Energia de Cordoba). Natural gas. The natural gas service by networks is provided by the Cooperativa Electrica de Laguna Larga Ltda. It acts as a sub-distributor. The gas comes from the gas pipeline network dependent on the distribution and transport companies. Lighting, sweeping and cleaning. These services are provided directly by the Municipality. Internet. The Cooperativa Electrica de Laguna Larga Ltda., two private companies from Laguna Larga and another from Pilar provide wireless Internet service. Telecom Argentina provides broadband Internet service, via ADSL. Sewers. The sewer project for Laguna Larga has been presented before the Provincial Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DIPAS). In the first half of 2010, the execution of the first stage of this project began, funded by ENHOSA. Broadcasting. Laguna Larga has five radio stations and one television channel, including FM Laguna Larga 104, FM Clara 105.3, FM Mediterranea 95.3 MHz. Radio Cyclos 89.7 and Canal Centro. Tourism. Laguna Larga has various celebrations and activities. Provincial Rally. The annual "Laguna Larga Rally" road race is held in August or September. The competition takes place on the fast and flat roads of the rural area of Laguna Larga. AgroCordoba - ExpoCordoba. The town formerly invited the whole country to visit for the "Muestra Agropecuaria AgroCordoba" (AgroCordoba Agricultural Exhibition). The last edition was in 2010. Patronal festival. The patronal festival of Our Lady of the Rosary is held on the first Sunday of October. Anniversary of the Foundation. On November 30 the Foundation of Laguna Larga is celebrated. During the month of November, events are held as part of a program of activities to celebrate the anniversary. Fiesta Zonal del Trigo. In January the traditional "Wheat Festival in Laguna Larga" is revived, organized by the Club Sportivo Laguna Larga, electing the Zonal Queen who represents the region in the "Fiesta Nacional del Trigo" (National Wheat Festival) in the city of Leones. Carnivals. In 1967, on the initiative of Mr. Nestor Paulucci, the first Carnival commission was formed, which organized the first carnival in early 1968. In 1984, with the presidency of Mr. Roberto Boldu, a record for attendance was broken with 7000 people. The proceeds of one of the nights were subsequently given to the governor of the province to be used for charitable purposes. Until 1980 the carnival was organized exclusively by the club, but in 1985 the journalist Denis Negro ventured into the commercial management of the carnival. With the passage of time, the great carnivals of Laguna Larga took on great significance; stations such as LV2 broadcast them live and great artistic figures passed through the streets of Laguna Larga on carnival dates. All this led to the Superior Government of the Province of Cordoba together with the Council of Education and Culture, on February 22, 1985, by decree No. 701 declaring the carnival of provincial interest. In 2008, the Provincial Carnivals of Laguna Larga reached their 40th edition. Museo Cachicoya (former Museo Polifacetico Regional Vottero). In 1986, 5-year-old Emanuel Vottero found the skull of a bird on the banks of the Los Molinos Dam. From that moment on, he began to collect simple objects: stones, bones and some ancient objects. His first historical piece was a camera from 1908 given to him by one of his grandparents. Time passed and his family realized that his hobby was serious. They began to support it and his collection of worthless objects began to incorporate objects of historical value. Years later, on 19 November 1995, and with the presence of many members of the public and authorities of the Secretariat of Heritage of the province, the "Museo Polifacetico Regional Vottero" (Vottero Regional Multifaceted Museum) was inaugurated. It had two floors and 10 thematic sections. Over time the Museum grew and began to occupy more space. Thanks to efforts, it was possible to move to the Railway Station, where the Museum was officially re-inaugurated in November 2004. Visits by schools and the general public were common. Admission was always free, reaching the whole community, even the smallest. Each piece tells a story and most of them are intimately related to the life and presence of local personalities, institutions and events that marked the city's course. In 2014, the museum, due to a very serious building problem caused by the rupture of a water pipe in the courtyard, cracked and its structure was severely damaged. The museum closed for repairs but suffered vandalism and theft. At the beginning of 2019, it was decided to set up a commission, to work collaboratively with the aim of reopening the Museum and, at the same time, carrying out cultural activities at different times of the year. On 30 November 2019, the reopening of the renovated Cachicoya Museum took place, an event planned as the central piece of the celebration of Laguna Larga's sesquicentennial. In addition to the inauguration of the Museum, there was a display of old cars and motorcycles, a literary gathering, artisan stalls and performances by two rock bands: Outsiders and Jalfawer. The museum continues to organize cultural events and workshops, with the doors of the museum open with free admission. 
